# Bike_Rental_Demand_Forecasting

Urban transportation systems have evolved to address growing needs for more sustainable, affordable, and flexible forms of travel in the years since. One of these emerged as bike sharing programs that are used as an alternative to urban congestion, are environmentally friendly, and healthy living. With cities around the world adopting these systems, the demand for bike rentals has now come to be understood and now needs to be understood to optimize the service, manage the resources, and provide better customer satisfaction. The thesis is the research of developing predictive models to predict bike rental demand using Capital Bikeshare bike-sharing system, one of the largest bike-sharing systems in the United States.

Capital Bikeshare, with locations at docking stations across Washington, D.C., launched in 2010 but permits casual or membership bicycle rentals. Thanks to more than 600 stations and over 5,000 bicycles, the program helps solve the last-mile transportation puzzle. Yet as bike-sharing systems gain more traction, the need to accurately predict their rental demand becomes necessary for efficient system management, including bike redistribution, development of infrastructure, as well as demand forecasting of future expansion. Using weather, seasonal factors, and contextual variables as inputs, this study produces models that predict hourly and daily bike rental counts to provide actionable information to city planners and bike-sharing operators.
